# Variables

Variables are a major part in Python, as they transport information around from one place to the other.

Let's call our variable "Var1":

**Var1**

and let's add our determinator:

**Var1 =**

Now that we have a variable created we can add any data to it:

Text         ex: **Var1 = "Hello World"**     ( Any Text )    {‘ or “}

Number   ex: **Var1 = 536**                     ( Any number )

Float        ex: **Var1 = 342.58**               ( Any number )

Boolean   ex: **Var1 = True**                    ( True or False )

There are more types of variables, but these are good for the basics.

When we use variables, we don’t always use them alone. Connecting variables to make more variables is a crucial part too! Let’s learn…

Here are some examples 

```python
var1 = 'Hello,'
var2 = ' World!'

print(var1 + var2)  # Method 1, using the '+'
print(var1, var2)   # Method 2, using the ','
```

Method 1 and 2 seem very similar, but they actually are very different!

Method 1, simply explained, adds all the variables next to it, then prints it.

Whereas, Method 2, prints each item individually, enabling us to print two different types of variables at once! Like this:

```python
var1 = 'Hello,'
var2 = 53

print(var1, var2)
```

When adding variables in-between text, we can easily clutter up our code by doing this:

```python
var1 = 173
var2 = 896

print('Our first number is ', var1, '. And our second number is ', var2)
```

This does give us our desired outcome of:

> Our first number is 173. And our second number is 896
> 

But another technique can be used to speed up and de-clutter our code!

```python
var1 = 173
var2 = 896

print(f'Our first number is {var1}. And our second number is {var2}')
```

Adding an “f” before the first quotation mark will tell the computer that it will see variables surrounded with “{}” in the text, and to print them out as variables. Our first print command was 72 characters long, whereas our new one is only 69 characters long! (Nice)