# Variables

---

Go back:    [The Basics](../The%20Basics%20f90e1521060e4f4da6383c736ae2e894.md) 

Variables are a major part in Python, as they transport information around from one place to the other.

Let's call our variable "Var1":

**Var1**

and let's add our determinator:

**Var1 =**

Now that we have a variable created we can add any data to it:

Text         ex: **Var1 = "Hello World"**                    ( Any Text )    {‘ or “}

List          ex: **Var1 = [’One’, ‘Two’, ‘Three’]**     ( Any Text )    {‘ or “}

Number   ex: **Var1 = 536**                                   ( Any number )

Float        ex: **Var1 = 342.58**                              ( Any number )

Boolean   ex: **Var1 = True**                                   ( True or False )

There are more types of variables, but these are good for the basics.

When we use variables, we don’t always use them alone. Connecting variables to make more variables is a crucial part too! Let’s learn…

Here are some examples 

```python
var1 = 'Hello,'
var2 = ' World!'

print(var1 + var2)  # Method 1, using the '+'
print(var1, var2)   # Method 2, using the ','
```

Method 1 and 2 seem very similar, but they actually are very different!

Method 1, simply explained, adds all the variables next to it, then prints it.

Whereas, Method 2, prints each item individually, enabling us to print two different types of variables at once! Like this:

```python
var1 = 'Hello,'
var2 = 53

print(var1, var2)
```

When adding variables in-between text, we can easily clutter up our code by doing this:

```python
var1 = 173
var2 = 896

print('Our first number is ', var1, '. And our second number is ', var2)
```

This does give us our desired outcome of:

> Our first number is 173. And our second number is 896
> 

But another technique can be used to speed up and de-clutter our code!

```python
var1 = 173
var2 = 896

print(f'Our first number is {var1}. And our second number is {var2}')
```

Adding an “f” before the first quotation mark will tell the computer that it will see variables surrounded with “{}” in the text, and to print them out as variables. Our first print command was 72 characters long, whereas our new one is only 69 characters long! (Nice)

---

Heres something you’ll use a billion times in your python journey:

```python
var == var
```

This returns True if both variables are equal (returns False if they aren’t).

```python
var != var
```

This does the opposite of ==, if the variables aren’t equal the return will be True, and if they are equal, it will return False.

```python
number1 > number2
```

Checks if number1 is larger than number2 (returns True), if that isn’t larger, then it returns False

```python
number1 < number2
```

Checks if number2 is smaller than number1 (returns True), if that isn’t smaller, then it returns False

These are great for the basics, but you’ll learn more the further you move on; and of course, you can guess, it works a lot of the time!